+++
title = "The Week In RillRate #1"
description = ""
date = 2021-10-06T23:47:17+03:00
updated = 2021-10-06T23:47:17+03:00
draft = false
template = "blog/page.html"

[taxonomies]
authors = ["Denis Kolodin"]

[extra]
lead = "Hi, Rustaceans! We released all the sources!"
+++

Previously, I did not publish a detailed report for a week, because I had to implement
the minimal set of features and collect detailed information about the progress.

### What is RillRate?

It's the fast UI framework for bots and tools. For example,
it's helpful to make and own dashboard to monitor or control something.

There are some benefits you get with the framework:

#### It's real-time

Data delivers and renders fast.

#### Zero-configuration

It works out of the box. Just add a dependency to your app, crate tracers
that you need and run the app. The dashboard will be imediatelly available
on `localhost:6361` for the browser.

#### Web dahsboard

#### It's bi-directional

#### It's totally synced

All instances of UI are totally synced. That means you can even use the tool
from different devices and see all the chagnes instanly.

It's the full-stack (UI + embedded server) pure Rust library
that helps to add real-time UI to bots and tools.

### What we did on this week?

This week we released an amazing feature to create a custom layout in
the Flutter style. It is also updated in real time. Just look at it:

The layout can be created programmatically or using XML file stored in
the `.rillrate/cases/<name>.xml` file.

```xml
<layout name="Case.Tab">
  <column>
    <row>
      <flow path="path.to.the.tracer" />
      <flow path="path.to.another.tracer" />
    </row>
    <row>
      <text>Labels also supported</text>
    </row>
  </column>
</layout>
```

In other works you or users can tweak UI interface for their needs.
